*: add TiDB Binlog Cluster doc (#701)
pingcap/docs: tools/tidb-binlog-cluster.md

---
title: TiDB-Binlog Cluster User Guide
category: advanced
---

# TiDB-Binlog Cluster User Guide

This document introduces the architecture and the deployment of TiDB-Binlog of the cluster version. If you want to use the local or Kafka version of TiDB-Binlog, see [the deployment document for TiDB-Binlog of the local version](../tools/tidb-binlog.md) and [the deployment document for TiDB-Binlog of the Kafka version](../tools/tidb-binlog-kafka.md).

TiDB-Binlog is an enterprise tool used to collect the binlog data of TiDB and provide real-time backup and synchronization.

TiDB-Binlog has the following features:

* **Data synchronization:** synchronize the data in the TiDB cluster to other databases
* **Real-time backup and restoration:** back up the data in the TiDB cluster and restore the TiDB cluster when the cluster fails

## TiDB-Binlog architecture

The TiDB-Binlog architecture is as follows:

![TiDB-Binlog architecture](../media/tidb_binlog_cluster_architecture.png)

The TiDB-Binlog cluster is composed of Pump and Drainer.

### Pump

> Pump is used to record the binlogs generated in TiDB, reorder the binlogs based on the commit time of the transaction, and send binlogs to Drainer for consumption.

Reviewer: I think sort is better

> Pump is used to record the binlogs generated in TiDB, reorder the binlogs based on the commit time of the transaction, and send binlogs to Drainer for consumption.

Reviewer 2: @CaitinChen Please update the several "reorder"s to "sort". Thanks!

* Binlog is started by adding the `enable-binlog` startup parameter to TiDB.
* Drainer does not support the `rename` DDL operation on the table of `ignore schemas` (the schemas in the filter list).
* If you want to start Drainer in the existing TiDB cluster, generally, you need to make a full backup of the cluster data, obtain `savepoint`, export the data to the target database, and start Drainer to synchronize the incremental data from `savepoint`.
* Drainer supports synchronizing binlogs to MySQL, TiDB, Kafka or the local files. If you need to synchronize binlogs to other destinations, you can set Drainer to synchronize the binlog to Kafka and read the data in Kafka for customization processing. See [Binlog Slave Client User Guide](../tools/binlog-slave-client.md).
* Pump/Drainer has two states: `paused` and `offline`. If you press Ctrl + C or kill the process, both Pump and Drainer become `paused`. There is no need for paused Pump to send all the binlog data to Drainer. If you need to exit from Pump for long (or do not use Pump any more), you need to use binlogctl to turn Pump offline. The same goes for Drainer.

## TiDB-Binlog deployment

> 

Reviewer 2: @WangXiangUSTC Got it! @CaitinChen Please add the related description here.

    ```

#### Step 3: Deploy Drainer

1. Obtain `initial_commit_ts`. 

    Run the following command to use binlogctl to generate the `tso` information which is needed for the initial start of Drainer:

    ```
    $ cd /home/tidb/tidb-ansible
    $ resources/bin/binlogctl -pd-urls=http://127.0.0.1:2379 -cmd generate_meta
    INFO[0000] [pd] create pd client with endpoints [http://192.168.199.118:32379]
    INFO[0000] [pd] leader switches to: http://192.168.199.118:32379, previous:
    INFO[0000] [pd] init cluster id 6569368151110378289
    2018/06/21 11:24:47 meta.go:117: [info] meta: &{CommitTS:400962745252184065}
    ```

    After this command is executed, a file named `{data-dir}/savepoint` is generated. This file contains `tso`, whose value is used as the value of the `initial-commit-ts` parameter needed for the initial start of Drainer.

2. Backup and restore.

    If the downstream is MySQL/TiDB, you need to guarantee the data integrity, and make a full backup of the data and recover the data before Drainer starts (about 10 minutes after Pump starts to run).

>     It is recommended to use mydumper to make a full backup of TiDB and then use Loader to export the data to the downstream. For more details, see [Backup and Restore](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/blob/master/op-guide/backup-restore.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    It is recommended to use [mydumper](../tools/mydumper.md) to make a full backup of TiDB and then use [Loader](../tools/loader.md) to export the data to the downstream. For more details, see [Backup and Restore](../op-guide/backup-restore.md).
```

3. Modify the `tidb-ansible/inventory.ini` file.

>     Add the deployment machine IPs for `drainer_servers`. Set `initial_commit_ts` to the value you have obtained, which is used just for the initial start of Drainer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Add the deployment machine IPs for `drainer_servers`. Set `initial_commit_ts` to the value you have obtained, which is only used for the initial start of Drainer.
```

>     - Assume that the downstream is MySQL with its alias `drainer_mysql`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Assume that the downstream is MySQL with the alias `drainer_mysql`:
```

        ```
        [drainer_servers]
        drainer_mysql ansible_host=172.16.10.71 initial_commit_ts="402899541671542785"
        ```

>     - Assume that the downstream is `pb` with its alias `drainer_pb`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Assume that the downstream is `pb` with the alias `drainer_pb`:
```

        ```
        [drainer_servers]
        drainer_pb ansible_host=172.16.10.71 initial_commit_ts="402899541671542785"
        ```

4. Modify the configuration file.

>     1. Assume that the downstream is MySQL:

Reviewer 2: A bulleted list is more appropriate for this section.

        # the downstream MySQL protocol database
        [syncer.to]
        host = "172.16.10.72"
        user = "root"
        password = "123456"
        port = 3306
        # Time and size limits for flash batch write
        # time-limit = "30s"
        # size-limit = "100000"
        ```

    2. Assume that the downstream is `pb`:

        ```
        $ cd /home/tidb/tidb-ansible/conf
        $ cp drainer.toml drainer_pb_drainer.toml
        $ vi drainer_pb_drainer.toml
        ```

        Set `db-type` to `pb`.

        ```
        # downstream storage, equal to --dest-db-type
        # Valid values are "mysql", "pb", "tidb", "flash", and "kafka".
        db-type = "pb"

        # Uncomment this if you want to use `pb` or `sql` as `db-type`.
        # `Compress` compresses the output file, like the `pb` and `sql` file. Now it supports the `gzip` algorithm only. 
        # The value can be `gzip`. Leave it empty to disable compression. 
        [syncer.to]
        compression = ""
        # default data directory: "{{ deploy_dir }}/data.drainer"
        # dir = "data.drainer"
        ```

5. Deploy Drainer.

    ```
    $ ansible-playbook deploy_drainer.yml
    ```

> 6. Starty Drainer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. Start Drainer.
```

    ```
    $ ansible-playbook start_drainer.yml
    ```

### Deploy TiDB-Binlog using Binary 

#### Download the official Binary

```bash
TiDB（Pump Client）
wget https://download.pingcap.org/tidb-v2.0.8-binlog-linux-amd64.tar.gz
wget https://download.pingcap.org/tidb-v2.0.8-binlog-linux-amd64.sha256

# Check the file integrity. It should return OK.
sha256sum -c tidb-v2.0.8-binlog-linux-amd64.sha256

Pump && Drainer
wget https://download.pingcap.org/tidb-binlog-cluster-latest-linux-amd64.tar.gz
wget https://download.pingcap.org/tidb-binlog-cluster-latest-linux-amd64.sha256

# Check the file integrity. It should return OK.
sha256sum -c tidb-binlog-cluster-latest-linux-amd64.sha256
```

#### The usage example

> Assume that there are three PDs, one TiDB, two machines used for deploying Pump, and one machine used for deploying Drainer. The information for each node is as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Assuming that you have three PD nodes, one TiDB node, two Pump nodes, and one Drainer node, the information of each node is as follows:
```

```
TiDB="192.168.0.10"
PD1="192.168.0.16"
PD2="192.168.0.15"
PD3="192.168.0.14"
Pump="192.168.0.11"
Pump="192.168.0.12"
Drainer="192.168.0.13"
```

> For this example, the following shows how to use Pump/Drainer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following part shows how to use Pump and Drainer based on the nodes above.
```

1. Deploy Pump using the binary.

    - Taking deploying Pump on "192.168.0.11" as an example, the description for command line parameters of Pump is as follows:

        ```
        Usage of Pump:
        -L string
            the output information level of logs: debug, info, warn, error, fatal ("info" by default)
        -V
            the print version information
        -addr string
            the RPC address through which Pump provides the service (-addr="192.168.0.11:8250")
        -advertise-addr string
            the RPC address through which Pump provides the external service (-advertise-addr="192.168.0.11:8250")
        -config string

>             the configuration file directory. If you have specified the configuration file, Pump reads the configuration file first. If the corresponding configuration exits in the command line parameters, Pump uses the configuration of the command line parameters to cover that of the configuration file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            the path of the configuration file. If you specify the configuration file, Pump reads the configuration in the configuration file first. If the corresponding configuration also exits in the command line parameters, Pump uses the configuration of the command line parameters to cover that of the configuration file.
```

        -data-dir string

>             the directory where the Pump data is stored

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            the path where the Pump data is stored
```

        -enable-tolerant

>             After `tolerant` is enabled, Pump (enabled by default) does not report an error if it fails to write in the binlog.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            After `tolerant` is enabled, Pump (enabled by default) does not report an error if the binlog fails to write into Pump.
```

        -gc int

>             the days of data which Pump saves (7 by default)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            Pump retains the data within how many days (7 by default)
```

        -heartbeat-interval int
            the interval of the heartbeats Pump sends to PD (in seconds)
        -log-file string

>             log file directory

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            the file path of logs
```

        # db-name ="test"
        # tbl-name = "~^a.*"
 
        # the server parameters of the downstream database when `db-type` is set to "mysql"
        [syncer.to]
        host = "192.168.0.13"
        user = "root"
        password = ""
        port = 3306
 
        # the directory where the binlog file is stored when `db-type` is set to `pb`
        # [syncer.to]
        # dir = "data.drainer"
 
        # the Kafka configuration when `db-type` is set to "kafka"
        # [syncer.to]
        # zookeeper-addrs = "127.0.0.1:2181"
        # kafka-addrs = "127.0.0.1:9092"
        # kafka-version = "0.8.2.0"
        ```

    - The example of starting Pump:  
        
        > **Note:** If the downstream is MySQL/TiDB, to guarantee the data integrity, you need to obtain the `initial-commit-ts` value and make a full backup of the data and restore the data before the initial start of Drainer. For details, see [Deploy Drainer](#deploy-drainer).
    
        When Pump is started for the first time, use the `initial-commit-ts` parameter.

        ```bash
        ./bin/drainer -config drainer.toml -initial-commit-ts {initial-commit-ts}
        ```

>         If the command line parameter and the configuration file parameter are the same, use the parameter value in the command line.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        If the command line parameter and the configuration file parameter are the same, the parameter value in the command line is used.
```

* offline: becomes offline. After Pump has sent all the binlog data which has been saved to Drainer, its state is switched to `offline`. Drainer's state can be switched to `offline` when all the threads have exited.

> **Notes:**

  * When Pump/Drainer is `pausing` or `paused`, the data synchronization is interrupted.
  * When Pump is `closing`, it needs to guarantee that all the data has been consumed by all the Drainers that are not `offline`. So before Pump gets offline, it needs to guarantee all the Drainers are `online`; otherwise, Pump cannot get offline normally.
  * The binlog data which Pump saves is processed by GC only when it is consumed by all the Drainers that are not `offline`.
  * Close Drainer only when it will not be used any more.

For how to pause, close, and check and modify the state of Drainer, see the [binlogctl guide](#binlogctl-guide) as follows.

### binlogctl guide

[binlogctl](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-tools/tree/develop/tidb-binlog/binlogctl) is an operations tool for TiDB-Binlog with the following features:

> * Obtains the current `ts`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Obtaining the current `ts`
```

> * Checks the Pump/Drainer state

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Checking the Pump/Drainer state
```

> * Modifies the Pump/Drainer state

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Modifying the Pump/Drainer state
```

> * Pause/Close Pump/Drainer

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Pausing or closing Pump/Drainer
```

#### Usage scenarios of binlogctl

> * The first time you run Drainer and need to obtain the current `ts`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* It is the first time you run Drainer and you need to obtain the current `ts`.
```

> * When Pump/Drainer exits abnormally, its state is not updated and the service is affected

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* When Pump/Drainer exits abnormally, its state is not updated and the service is affected. You can use this tool to modify the state.
```

> * When a fault occurs in synchronization or you need to check the runtime, and you need to check the Pump/Drainer state

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* An error occurs during synchronization and you need to check the running status and the Pump/Drainer state.
```

> * When you need to maintain the cluster and should pause/close Pump/Drainer

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* While maintaining the cluster, you need to pause or close Pump/Drainer.
```

#### Download binlogctl

Download binlogctl via:

```bash
wget https://download.pingcap.org/binlogctl-new-linux-amd64.tar.gz
wget https://download.pingcap.org/binlogctl-new-linux-amd64.sha256

# Check the file integrity. It should return OK.
sha256sum -c tidb-binlog-new-linux-amd64.sha256
```

> #### How to use binlogctl 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### binlogctl usage description
```

Command line parameters:

```
Usage of binlogctl:
-V	

> Outputs the binlogctl version information

Reviewer 2: Keep the indentation consistent for the description lines in this code block.

-cmd string
    the command mode, including "generate_meta", "pumps", "drainers", "update-pump" ,"update-drainer", "pause-pump", "pause-drainer", "offline-pump", and "offline-drainer"
-data-dir string

>     the directory where the checkpoint file of Drainer is stored ("binlog_position" by default)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    the file path where the checkpoint file of Drainer is stored ("binlog_position" by default)
```

-node-id string
    ID of Pump/Drainer
-pd-urls string
    the address of PD. If multiple addresses exist, use "," to separate each ("http://127.0.0.1:2379" by default)
-ssl-ca string

>     the directory of SSL CAs

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    the file path of SSL CAs
```

-ssl-cert string

>         the directory of X509 certificate file of the PEM format

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        the file path of the X509 certificate file in the PEM format
```

-ssl-key string

>         the directory of X509 key file of the PEM format

Reviewer 2: Ditto

-time-zone string
    If a time zone is set, the corresponding time of the obtained `tso` is printed in the "generate_meta" mode. For example, "Asia/Shanghai" is the CST time zone and "Local" is the local time zone
```

Command example:

> - Check the state of all the Pump/Drainers:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Check the state of all the Pumps or Drainers:
```

    ```
    bin/binlogctl -pd-urls=http://127.0.0.1:2379 -cmd pumps/drainers

    2018/06/21 11:24:10 nodes.go:53: [info] pump: &{NodeID:ip-192-168-199-118:8250 Host:127.0.0.1:8250 IsAlive:true IsOffline:false LatestFilePos:{Suffix:0 Offset:15320} LatestKafkaPos:{Suffix:0 Offset:382} OfflineTS:0}
    ```
 
- Modify the Pump/Drainer state:

    ```
    The Pump/Drainer states include `online`, `pausing`, `paused`, `closing` and `offline`. 

    bin/binlogctl -pd-urls=http://127.0.0.1:2379 -cmd update-pump/update-drainer -node-id ip-127-0-0-1:8250/{nodeID} -state {state}
    ```

    This command modifies the Pump/Drainer state saved in PD.
 

> - Pause/Close Pump/Drainer:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Pause or close Pump/Drainer:
```

    ```
    bin/binlogctl -pd-urls=http://127.0.0.1:2379 -cmd pause-pump/pause-drainer/offline-pump/offline-drainer -node-id ip-127-0-0-1:8250/{nodeID}
    ```

    binlogctl sends the HTTP request to Pump/Drainer, and Pump/Drainer exits from the process after receiving the command and sets its state to `paused`/`offline`.

> - Generate the meta file which is needed for the Drainer startup:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Generate the meta file that Drainer needs to start:
```

---
title: TiDB-Binlog Cluster User Guide

> summary: This document introduces TiDB-Binlog of the cluster version, including its architecture, deployment, operations and monitoring.

Reviewer 2: Please refer to other documents for the summary sentence pattern. Only several specific sentence patterns are used.

## TiDB-Binlog operations

### Pump/Drainer state

Pump/Drainer state description:

* `online`: running normally
* `pausing`: in the pausing process. It turns into this state after you use `kill` or press Ctrl + C to exit from the process.
* `paused`: has been stopped. While Pump is in this state, it rejects the request of writing binlog into it and does not provide the binlog for Drainer any more. When Drainer is in this state, it does not synchronize data to the downstream. After Pump and Drainer exit normally from all the threads, they switch the state to `paused` and then exits from the process.
* `closing`: in the offline process. `binlogctl` is used to get Pump/Drainer offline and Pump/Drainer is in this state before the process exits. In this state, Pump does not accept new requests of writing binlog into it and waits for all the binlog data to be used up by Drainer.
* `offline`: becomes offline. After Pump sents all the binlog data that it saves to Drainer, its state is switched to `offline`. Drainer's state can be switched to `offline` after all the threads have exited.

> **Notes:**

> 

Reviewer 2: This blank line also needs ">".

 
- Pause or close Pump/Drainer:

    ```
    bin/binlogctl -pd-urls=http://127.0.0.1:2379 -cmd pause-pump/pause-drainer/offline-pump/offline-drainer -node-id ip-127-0-0-1:8250/{nodeID}
    ```

    `binlogctl` sends the HTTP request to Pump/Drainer, and Pump/Drainer exits from the process after receiving the command and sets its state to `paused`/`offline`.

- Generate the meta file that Drainer needs to start:

    ```
    bin/binlogctl -pd-urls=http://127.0.0.1:2379 -cmd generate_meta

    INFO[0000] [pd] create pd client with endpoints [http://192.168.199.118:32379]
    INFO[0000] [pd] leader switches to: http://192.168.199.118:32379, previous:
    INFO[0000] [pd] init cluster id 6569368151110378289
    2018/06/21 11:24:47 meta.go:117: [info] meta: &{CommitTS:400962745252184065}
    ```

    This command generates a `{data-dir}/savepoint` file. This file stores the `tso` information which is needed for the initial start of Drainer.

## TiDB-Binlog monitoring

After you have deployed TiDB-Binlog using Ansible successfully, you can go to the Grafana Web (default address: <http://grafana_ip:3000>, default account: admin, password: admin) to check the state of Pump and Drainer.

> For TiDB-Binlog monitoring metrics, see [TiDB-Binlog Monitoring Metrics](../tools/tidb-binlog-monitor.md)

Reviewer 2: Add a period in the end.

category: tools
---

# TiDB-Binlog Cluster User Guide

This document introduces the architecture and the deployment of TiDB-Binlog of the cluster version. If you want to use the local or Kafka version of TiDB-Binlog, see [the deployment document for TiDB-Binlog of the local version](../tools/tidb-binlog.md) and [the deployment document for TiDB-Binlog of the Kafka version](../tools/tidb-binlog-kafka.md).

TiDB-Binlog is an enterprise tool used to collect the binlog data of TiDB and provide real-time backup and synchronization.

TiDB-Binlog has the following features:

* **Data synchronization:** synchronize the data in the TiDB cluster to other databases
* **Real-time backup and restoration:** back up the data in the TiDB cluster and restore the TiDB cluster when the cluster fails

## TiDB-Binlog architecture

The TiDB-Binlog architecture is as follows:

![TiDB-Binlog architecture](../media/tidb_binlog_cluster_architecture.png)

The TiDB-Binlog cluster is composed of Pump and Drainer.

### Pump

Pump is used to record the binlogs generated in TiDB, sort the binlogs based on the commit time of the transaction, and send binlogs to Drainer for consumption.

### Drainer

> Drainer collects and merges binlogs from each Pump, converts the binlog to SQL or data of a specific format, and synchronizes the data to the downstream.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Drainer collects and combines binlogs from each Pump, converts the binlog to SQL or data of a specific format, and synchronizes the data to the downstream.
```

## Main features

* Multiple Pumps form a cluster which can scale out horizontally.
* TiDB uses the built-in Pump Client to send the binlog to each Pump.
* Pump stores binlogs and sends the binlogs to Drainer in order.

> * Drainer reads binlogs of each Pump, merges and reorders the binlogs, and sends the binlogs to the downstream.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Drainer reads binlogs of each Pump, combines and sorts the binlogs, and sends the binlogs to the downstream.
```
